


safe mode boot in vivo phones how ?

Booting a Vivo phone into Safe Mode lets the phone start without third-party apps, so you can check if a downloaded app is causing problems (lag, crashes, battery drain, etc.).

Method 1 — Using the Power Button (works on most Vivo phones)
Press and hold the Power button.

When the Power off / Restart menu appears, press and hold “Power off.”

A popup will appear asking “Reboot to Safe Mode?”

Tap OK.

The phone will restart in Safe Mode.

You’ll see “Safe mode” written at the bottom corner of the screen after it boots.

Method 2 — Using Hardware Buttons (if the phone is stuck)
Turn the phone off completely.

Press and hold the Power button until the Vivo logo appears.

Immediately press and hold the Volume Down button.

Keep holding it until the phone finishes booting.

The device should start in Safe Mode.

How to Exit Safe Mode
Just restart the phone normally:

Hold Power button → Restart.

The phone will boot back to normal mode.

✅ Tip: In Safe Mode, apps you installed from Play Store won’t run. If the phone works normally there, one of those apps is likely causing the issue.

If you want, tell me:

your Vivo model (for example **Vivo Y20, Vivo V29, etc.)

and I can give the exact steps for that model.


vivo y20A 2021

Vivo Y20A (2021) – Booting into Safe Mode
Method 1 (Easiest)
Press and hold the Power button.

The Power menu appears.

Tap and hold “Power off.”

A message will appear: Reboot to Safe Mode.

Tap OK.

The phone will restart and you’ll see “Safe mode” at the bottom of the screen.

Method 2 (If the phone is lagging or stuck)
Turn the phone off completely.

Press and hold Power button.

When the Vivo logo appears, immediately press and hold Volume Down.

Keep holding until the phone finishes starting.

It will start in Safe Mode.

How to Exit Safe Mode
Just restart the phone normally:

Hold Power button → Restart.

The phone will boot back to normal mode.

💡 Why Safe Mode is useful

Detect problematic apps

Fix lag or crashes

Check battery drain caused by apps

If you want, I can also show:

How to remove the app causing problems in Safe Mode

How to fix Vivo phones stuck in Safe Mode.


how can i with adb ?

On the Vivo Y20A (2021), you can reboot into Safe Mode using ADB if USB debugging is enabled.

1. Enable USB Debugging on the phone
Go to Settings → About phone

Tap Build number about 7 times to enable Developer Options

Go to Settings → Developer options

Turn on USB debugging

2. Connect phone to PC
Connect the phone with USB and check ADB connection:

adb devices
Your device should appear in the list.

3. Reboot into Safe Mode
Run this command:

adb shell setprop persist.sys.safemode 1
adb reboot
The phone will restart into Safe Mode.

4. Exit Safe Mode
Run this command:

adb shell setprop persist.sys.safemode 0
adb reboot
or simply restart the phone normally.

Quick alternative (sometimes works on some Android builds)
adb reboot safemode
💡 Important

USB debugging must already be enabled.

Some Vivo / Funtouch OS versions block the safemode property, so the command might not work.

If you want, I can also show 3 powerful ADB commands for Vivo phones (to remove bloatware, speed up the phone, and fix lag) that most users don’t know.


go on

On Vivo Y20A (2021) running **Android with Funtouch OS, ADB can help you clean the system and reduce lag without rooting the phone. Below are three practical commands that many people use.

1. Remove Bloatware (without root)
Many pre-installed apps run in the background and slow the phone.

First list installed packages:

adb shell pm list packages
Then uninstall a specific system app for the current user:

adb shell pm uninstall --user 0 package.name
Example (removing a common Vivo app):

adb shell pm uninstall --user 0 com.vivo.browser
Important notes:

This does not delete the app permanently, it only removes it for the current user.

A factory reset restores it.

Common packages people remove on Vivo devices:

com.vivo.browser

com.vivo.appstore

com.vivo.game

com.vivo.weather

(Only remove apps you are sure about.)

2. Reduce Animations (makes the phone feel faster)
ADB can disable heavy animations:

adb shell settings put global window_animation_scale 0
adb shell settings put global transition_animation_scale 0
adb shell settings put global animator_duration_scale 0
This makes opening apps and switching screens much faster.

To restore defaults:

adb shell settings put global window_animation_scale 1
adb shell settings put global transition_animation_scale 1
adb shell settings put global animator_duration_scale 1
3. Force Stop Problem Apps (fix lag or battery drain)
If an app is misbehaving:

adb shell am force-stop package.name
Example:

adb shell am force-stop com.facebook.katana
This immediately kills the app and its background services.

✅ Tip: You can also see which apps are draining resources:

adb shell dumpsys batterystats
or check running processes:

adb shell top
💡 If you want, I can also show:

10 safe Vivo bloatware packages you can remove

ADB commands to increase battery life

A trick to unlock hidden settings in Funtouch OS.




